[WIP] Terraform Docs for TF policy (#2690)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform-docs-common/docs/cloud-docs/workspaces/policy-enforcement/define-policies/terraform-policy.mdx

---

> page_title: Define Terraform policy policies

Reviewer: We've usually referred to them as Terraform policies, to avoid the repeated use of the word 'policies'. However, we will follow your recommendation here.

Author: "Terraform policy policies" is technically correct, but I agree it scans...badly. Checking with the team if we can use "Terraform policies" instead.

### Why use Terraform policy?

Terraform policy provides the following features and benefits for Terraform practitioners:

- **HCL familiarity**: Uses the same configuration language as Terraform, reducing the learning curve for Terraform practitioners
- **Native Terraform integration**: Directly integrates with Terraform providers and resources
- **Built-in testing**: Includes a testing framework to allow you to verify your policies work as expected before you enforce them in HCP Terraform
- **Multiple evaluation stages**: Supports pre-plan, plan-time, and apply-time evaluation

### Implement Terraform policy

In order to implement Terraform policy for your organization, you will:

1. Write policies for resources defined in any Terraform provider using Terraform policy's configuration language, based on HCL.

> 1. Test your policies locally with the `tfpolicy` CLI to ensure each policy targets the correct resources and behaves as expected.

Reviewer: Should these be 1,2,3,4? They appear as '1' despite being a sequence of steps.

Author: The markdown rendered turns them into proper ordered lists, we just use all 1s by convention/to make it easier to add and remove steps without renumbering all of them.

---
page_title: Define policies for the Terraform policy framework
description: >-
  Learn how to define policies using Terraform policy, HashiCorp's HCL-based policy framework for Terraform.
---

# Define policies for the Terraform policy framework

Terraform policy is HashiCorp's native HCL-based policy framework that integrates directly with Terraform providers. This page describes how to use Terraform policy with HCP Terraform.

@include "beta.mdx"

## Overview

> Terraform policy uses HCL (the same language as Terraform) to define policies and integrates with Terraform and Terraform providers. This makes it familiar to Terraform users and allows for integration with Terraform workflows. When you implement Terraform policy in your organization, you will author your policies, test them, and then commit them to your Version Control System (VCS). Then, you will configure policy sets in HCP Terraform and apply them to the projects and workspaces you want to enforce the policies on, or your entire organization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Terraform policy uses HCL, the same language as Terraform, to define policies and integrates with Terraform and Terraform providers. This makes it familiar to Terraform users and allows for integration with Terraform workflows. When you implement Terraform policy in your organization, author your policies, test them, and then commit them to your version control system (VCS). Then, configure policy sets in HCP Terraform and apply them to specific projects and workspaces or to your entire organization.
```

### Why use Terraform policy?

Terraform policy provides the following features and benefits for Terraform practitioners:

- **HCL familiarity**: Uses the same configuration language as Terraform, reducing the learning curve for Terraform practitioners
- **Native Terraform integration**: Directly integrates with Terraform providers and resources
- **Built-in testing**: Includes a testing framework to allow you to verify your policies work as expected before you enforce them in HCP Terraform

> - **Multiple evaluation stages**: Supports pre-plan, plan-time, and apply-time evaluation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- HCL familiarity: Uses the same configuration language as Terraform, reducing the learning curve for Terraform practitioners
- Native Terraform integration: Directly integrates with Terraform providers and resources
- Built-in testing: Includes a testing framework to allow you to verify your policies work as expected before you enforce them in HCP Terraform
- Multiple evaluation stages: Supports pre-plan, plan-time, and apply-time evaluation
```

### Implement Terraform policy

In order to implement Terraform policy for your organization, you will:

> 1. Write policies for resources defined in any Terraform provider using Terraform policy's configuration language, based on HCL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Write policies for resources defined in any Terraform provider using Terraform policy's configuration language based on HCL.
```

1. Test your policies locally with the `tfpolicy` CLI to ensure each policy targets the correct resources and behaves as expected.

> 1. Commit your policies to a Version Control System (VCS) repository and connect it to HCP Terraform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Commit your policies to a version control system (VCS) repository and connect it to HCP Terraform.
```

1. Organize policies into policy sets on HCP Terraform and target projects, workspaces, or your entire organization for evaluation.

> After you have configured a policy set, HCP Terraform will automatically enforce your policies whenever you trigger a run on a target workspace, and report the results of the policy evaluation to end users during the run.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you have configured a policy set, HCP Terraform automatically enforces your policies whenever you trigger a run on a target workspace and reports the results of the policy evaluation to end users during the run.
```

#### Write policies

> First you will write your policies in `.policy.hcl` files in Terraform policy's HCL-based configuration language.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, write your policies in `.policy.hcl` files in Terraform policy's HCL-based configuration language.
```
Tutorials have a little more leeway to cast actions in future tense, but in docs [use simple present tense](https://github.com/hashicorp/web-unified-docs/blob/main/docs/style-guide/top-12.md#use-simple-present-tense-to-describe-immediate-actions) in pretty much all cases.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="policies/example.policy.hcl"

```hcl
resource_policy "aws_instance" "example" {
  enforcement_level = "mandatory"
  
  enforce {
    condition     = attrs.instance_type == "t3.micro"
    error_message = "Only t3.micro instances are allowed"
  }
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

To learn how to write your policies, refer to [Terraform policy - Write policies](/terraform/policy/write).

#### Test policies

When you write your polices, we recommend you also write tests to verify that each policy works as expected. Policy tests also use HCL, and we recommend that you store them in your VCS repository alongside the policies they test. Policy tests work by defining mock providers, resources, data sources, and modules that you will configure with attributes to either pass or fail policy enforcement. Policy test files end in `.policytest.hcl`.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

When you test the following example policy with the `tfpolicy` CLI, it reports that both tests pass because the second mocked resource is configured with `expect_failure = true`.
```
We usually explain examples when introducing them. Additional explanation can follow the example when it's too much to explain in the introduction.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="tests/example.policytest.hcl">

```hcl
resource "aws_instance" "pass" {
  attrs = {
    instance_type = "t3.micro"
  }
}

resource "aws_instance" "fail_wrong_type" {
  expect_failure = true
  
  attrs = {
    instance_type = "t3.large"
  }
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

> When you test the example above with the `tfpolicy` CLI, it will report that both tests pass, since the second mocked resource is configured with `expect_failure = true`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Moved to line 62

```shell-session
$ tfpolicy test --policies=policies/ --tests=tests/
 # tests/example.policytest.hcl... running
   # resource.aws_instance.pass... running
   # resource.aws_instance.pass... pass
   # resource.aws_instance.fail_wrong_type... running
   # resource.aws_instance.fail_wrong_type... pass
```

> To learn how to test your policies, refer to [Terraform policy - Test policies](/terraform/policy/test).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To learn how to test your policies, refer to [Test policies](/terraform/policy/write/tests).
```

#### Commit policies to VCS

Commit sets of policies and their tests into a VCS repository so that you can create a policy set in HCP Terraform.

To learn how to organize your policies into a VCS repository, refer to [VCS setup for Terraform policy](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/policy-enforcement/manage-policy-sets/terraform-policy-vcs).

#### Configure a policy set

> After you have committed your policies to a VCS repository, you can configure a policy set within HCP Terraform to begin enforcing your policies. Refer to [VCS setup for Terraform policy - Policy set configuration in HCP Terraform](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/policy-enforcement/manage-policy-sets/terraform-policy-vcs#policy-set-configuration-in-HCP-Terraform) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you have committed your policies to a VCS repository, you can configure a policy set within HCP Terraform to begin enforcing your policies. Refer to [Policy set configuration in HCP Terraform](/terraform/cloud-docs/workspaces/policy-enforcement/manage-policy-sets/terraform-policy-vcs#policy-set-configuration-in-hcp-terraform) for more information.
```
